I have always wanted to create a program like this, but I never knew the math required to make it until now. Now that I am taking a calc 3 course, I decided to try and apply what I was learning in a way that is visually interesting. Small projects like this help give me a sence of accomplishment when I get diminishing returns of satisfaction on bigger projects that take longer to complete.


This program works by creating an array of coordinates, where each coordinate is a point on the surface of a cube. It then uses rotation matrices to rotate each coordinate around the x and y axis. Since the rotation matrices use both sine and cosine multiple times, they are precomputed for both angles of rotation for better efficiency. The rotation matrices are also multiplied together beforehand to further increase efficiency by reducing unnessesary computations.

After calculating the correct three-dimensional position, the position on screen is calculated and is checked to make sure only the points that are closest to the screen are used. This is done to remove most of the lighting calculations for the points that cannot be seen. The resulting points are then checked for the correct lighting values using the normal vectors of the face that it is on.

The normal vectors for the lighting of each face are calculated by having a set of coordinates located at the center of each face and rotating them at the same angle as the main cube. Each point on the cube then finds the closest center point and uses a vector from the middle of the cube to that center point as a normal vector. That vector is then used in a dot product with another arbitrary vector determining the lighting direction. The product of this calculation results in a number between 0 and the magnitude of the lighting vector, which is then normalized to between 0 and the number of different lighing characters to determine which character to use for the lighting.
